README.md, before:

# 🌱 AgriTech — Smart Farming Solutions

![AgriTech Banner](images/plant.png)

[![SWoC 2026](https://img.shields.io/badge/SWoC-2026-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://swoc.tech)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-Welcome-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#-overview)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Application Preview](#️-application-preview)
- [System Architecture](#-system-architecture)
- [Core Features](#-core-features)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [Backend vs Frontend](#backend-vs-frontend)
- [Security & Reliability](#-security--reliability)
- [Environment Variables](#️-environment-variables)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Contribution Flow](#-contribution-flow)
- [Team](#-team)
- [Contributing & Support](#-contributing--support)
- [Contributors](#-contributors)
- [Production Deployment](#-production-deployment)
- [API Keys Guide](#-api-keys-guide)
- [Reporting Issues](#-reporting-issues)
- [License](#-license)
- [FAQ](#-faq)

---

> ⚠️ **Note:** For production deployment, use a WSGI server like `gunicorn` instead of Flask's built-in server.

> ⚠️ **Never commit your `.env` file or API keys to the repository. Always keep secrets private!**

---

**AgriTech** is an AI-powered smart agriculture platform designed to assist farmers with crop
recommendations, yield prediction, plant disease detection, and community-driven collaboration—enabling sustainable and data-driven farming practices.

---

## 📌 Overview

- AI-driven decision support for modern agriculture
- Early-stage plant disease detection
- Crop yield forecasting using machine learning models
- Collaborative ecosystem for farmers and stakeholders

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech.git
cd AgriTech
```

### 2️⃣ Run Backend (Primary – Flask)

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py
```

**Backend URL:**

```bash
http://localhost:5000
```

**🔍 Backend Health Check**

```bash
GET http://localhost:5000/health
```

**Expected response:**

```bash
{ "status": "ok" }
```

**3️⃣ Run Frontend**

```bash
cd src/frontend
python -m http.server 8000
```

**Frontend URL:**

```bash
http://localhost:8000
```

Note: Backend and frontend must be running simultaneously for proper functionality.

---

## 🖥️ Application Preview

<img src="images/image1.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />
<img src="images/image.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />

<img src="images/image2.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />
<img src="images/image3.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture

1. **User Input:** Soil data and plant images
2. **Backend Processing:** Flask APIs and model routing
3. **ML Inference:**
   - CNNs for disease detection
   - Random Forest / XGBoost for crop recommendation
   - Regression models for yield prediction
4. **Output:** Predictions with insights and actions

---

## 🌟 Core Features

- 🌾 Crop Recommendation
- 📉 Yield Prediction
- 🔬 Disease Detection
- � **AI Chatbot** - Platform guidance & agriculture support
- �🤝 Farmer Community
- 🛒 Shopkeeper Listings

---
## 🤖 AI Chatbot

AgriTech's AI-powered chatbot provides comprehensive support for farmers:

### Features
- **Platform Guidance**: Explains how to use all AgriTech features and tools
- **Agriculture Support**: Answers farming questions, crop recommendations, pest control
- **Decision Making**: Provides region-specific, season-based farming advice
- **Image Analysis**: Upload plant photos for disease detection and diagnosis
- **24/7 Support**: Always available for instant farming assistance

### Technical Implementation
- **Dual Mode**: AI-powered (Google Gemini) + Rule-based fallback
- **Smart Matching**: Fuzzy search with keyword analysis for accurate responses
- **Offline Capability**: Works without internet using JSON-based responses
- **Image Processing**: Analyzes plant photos for disease identification

### Usage
```bash
# Start the chatbot server
npm install
node server.js

# Access at: http://localhost:3000/chat
```

### API Endpoints
- `POST /api/chat` - Send messages and images for AI analysis

---
## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### 🎨 Frontend

- HTML5
- CSS3
- JavaScript (ES6)

### ⚙️ Backend

- Python (Flask)
- Node.js (Optional)

### 🤖 Machine Learning

- TensorFlow
- Scikit-learn
- OpenCV

### 🗄️ Database & DevOps

- MySQL
- MongoDB
- Firebase
- Docker
- GitHub Actions

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```text
AGRITECH/
├── app.py                      # 🐍 Flask Backend (Main entry point)
├── server.js                   # 🟢 Node.js Chatbot Server
├── package.json                # Node.js dependencies
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── firebase.js                 # Firebase config fetching
├── 📁 chatbot/
│   ├── chat.html               # 🤖 Chatbot interface
│   ├── chat.js                 # Chatbot client logic
│   ├── chat.css                # Chatbot styling
│   ├── json-chatbot.js         # Rule-based chatbot engine
│   └── chatbot-responses.json  # Predefined responses
├── 📁 src/
│   └── 📁 frontend/            # 🌐 Frontend UI (HTML, CSS, JS)
│       ├── 📁 pages/           # Individual page files
│       ├── 📁 css/             # Stylesheets
│       └── 📁 js/              # Client-side scripts
├── 📁 Crop Recommendation/   # 🌾 Crop recommendation module
├── 📁 Disease Prediction/     # 🔬 Disease detection module
├── 📁 Crop Yield Prediction/   # 📊 Yield forecasting module
├── 📁 Community/               # 💬 community/forum backend
├── 📁 images/                  # 📸 Screenshots and assets
├── 📄 README.md                # This file
└── 📄 CONTRIBUTING.md          # Contribution guidelines
```

---

### Backend vs Frontend

- **Backend** (`app.py` at root): Flask server handling APIs, Firebase config
- **Frontend** (`src/frontend/`): Static HTML/CSS/JS served via Python HTTP server
- **Optional Node Server** (`server.js`): Alternative chat backend (not required)

---

## 🔐 Security & Reliability

- Image sanitization using OpenCV
- Secrets stored in `.env` files
- ML models evaluated using standard performance metrics (accuracy varies by model and dataset)

---

### ⚙️ Environment Variables

```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_api_key
FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_key
FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_project.firebaseapp.com
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_bucket.appspot.com
FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=your_measurement_id
```

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- Cloud Deployment
- Mobile Application
- Real-Time Weather API
- ~~AI Chatbot~~ ✅ **COMPLETED**
- Multilingual Support

---

## 🤝 Contribution Flow

```bash
Fork → Clone → Branch → Commit → Push → Pull Request → Review → Merge
```

Read **[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)** for SWoC 2026 guidelines.

---

## 👥 Team

| Name                    | Role                    |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Om Roy                  | Project Lead · Web · ML |
| Shubhangi Roy           | ML · Backend            |

---

## 🤝 Contributing & Support

We love contributions! Please read our **[CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)** to get started with **SWoC 2026** tasks. Whether it's fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation, your help is always welcome!

---

## ✨ Contributors

#### Thanks to all the wonderful people contributing to this project! 💖

![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=omroy07/AgriTech)

[View full contribution graph](https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech/graphs/contributors)

---

For production use, run the backend with a WSGI server like [gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/):

```bash
pip install gunicorn
gunicorn app:app
```

---

## 🔑 API Keys Guide

- **Gemini API Key:** [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/) se generate karein.
- **Firebase Keys:** [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) se apne project ke liye keys lein.
- API keys ko `.env` file me store karein (kabhi bhi repo me commit na karein).

---

## 🐞 Reporting Issues

Found a bug or want a new feature? [Open an issue](https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech/issues).

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---
## 🛠️ Common Issues & Fixes

- ❌ **ModuleNotFoundError**
  👉 Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

- ❌ **Firebase config error**
  👉 Ensure `.env` values match Firebase Console

- ❌ **CORS issue**
  👉 Make sure backend runs before frontend

- ❌ **Port already in use**
  👉 Change port in `app.py` or stop previous process

## ❓ FAQ

**Q: The project is not running. What should I do?**
A: Make sure all Python dependencies are installed, the .env file is properly configured, and the correct API keys are being used.

**Q: How do I get a Gemini/Firebase API key?**
A: Refer to the “API Keys Guide” section above for step-by-step instructions.

**Q: I am seeing the warning “This is a development server…” on the Flask server. What does it mean?**
A: This server is intended only for development. For production, use a WSGI server such as Gunicorn.

**Q: I accidentally pushed my .env file. What should I do?**
A: Immediately rotate/regenerate your API keys, remove the .env file from Git tracking, add it to .gitignore, and clean the repository history if required.

**Q: The /health endpoint is not responding. What could be wrong?**
A: Ensure the backend server is running correctly and that the /health route is properly implemented.

---

**Made with ❤️ by the AgriTech Community — SWoC 2026**

Commit message:

feat: strengthen registration validation and fix backend imports

README.md, after:

# 🌱 AgriTech — Smart Farming Solutions

![AgriTech Banner](images/plant.png)

[![SWoC 2026](https://img.shields.io/badge/SWoC-2026-blue?style=for-the-badge)](https://swoc.tech)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green?style=for-the-badge)](LICENSE)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-Welcome-brightgreen?style=for-the-badge)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

---

## 📚 Table of Contents

- [Overview](#-overview)
- [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
- [Application Preview](#️-application-preview)
- [System Architecture](#-system-architecture)
- [Core Features](#-core-features)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Project Structure](#-project-structure)
- [Backend vs Frontend](#backend-vs-frontend)
- [Security & Reliability](#-security--reliability)
- [Environment Variables](#️-environment-variables)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Contribution Flow](#-contribution-flow)
- [Team](#-team)
- [Contributing & Support](#-contributing--support)
- [Contributors](#-contributors)
- [Production Deployment](#-production-deployment)
- [API Keys Guide](#-api-keys-guide)
- [Reporting Issues](#-reporting-issues)
- [License](#-license)
- [FAQ](#-faq)

---

> ⚠️ **Note:** For production deployment, use a WSGI server like `gunicorn` instead of Flask's built-in server.

> ⚠️ **Never commit your `.env` file or API keys to the repository. Always keep secrets private!**

---

**AgriTech** is an AI-powered smart agriculture platform designed to assist farmers with crop
recommendations, yield prediction, plant disease detection, and community-driven collaboration—enabling sustainable and data-driven farming practices.

---

## 📌 Overview

- AI-driven decision support for modern agriculture
- Early-stage plant disease detection
- Crop yield forecasting using machine learning models
- Collaborative ecosystem for farmers and stakeholders

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1️⃣ Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech.git
cd AgriTech
```

### 2️⃣ Run Backend (Primary – Flask)

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py
```

**Backend URL:**

```bash
http://localhost:5000
```

**🔍 Backend Health Check**

```bash
GET http://localhost:5000/health
```

**Expected response:**

```bash
{ "status": "ok" }
```

**3️⃣ Run Frontend**

```bash
cd src/frontend
python -m http.server 8000
```

**Frontend URL:**

```bash
http://localhost:8000
```

Note: Backend and frontend must be running simultaneously for proper functionality.

---

## 🖥️ Application Preview

<img src="images/image1.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />
<img src="images/image.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />

<img src="images/image2.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />
<img src="images/image3.png"
       alt="AgriTech Dashboard" width="100%" />

---

## 🏗️ System Architecture

1. **User Input:** Soil data and plant images
2. **Backend Processing:** Flask APIs and model routing
3. **ML Inference:**
   - CNNs for disease detection
   - Random Forest / XGBoost for crop recommendation
   - Regression models for yield prediction
4. **Output:** Predictions with insights and actions

---

## 🌟 Core Features

- 🌾 Crop Recommendation
- 📉 Yield Prediction
- 🔬 Disease Detection
- � **AI Chatbot** - Platform guidance & agriculture support
- �🤝 Farmer Community
- 🛒 Shopkeeper Listings

---

## 🤖 AI Chatbot

AgriTech's AI-powered chatbot provides comprehensive support for farmers:

### Features

- **Platform Guidance**: Explains how to use all AgriTech features and tools
- **Agriculture Support**: Answers farming questions, crop recommendations, pest control
- **Decision Making**: Provides region-specific, season-based farming advice
- **Image Analysis**: Upload plant photos for disease detection and diagnosis
- **24/7 Support**: Always available for instant farming assistance

### Technical Implementation

- **Dual Mode**: AI-powered (Google Gemini) + Rule-based fallback
- **Smart Matching**: Fuzzy search with keyword analysis for accurate responses
- **Offline Capability**: Works without internet using JSON-based responses
- **Image Processing**: Analyzes plant photos for disease identification

### Usage

```bash
# Start the chatbot server
npm install
node server.js

# Access at: http://localhost:3000/chat
```

### API Endpoints

- `POST /api/chat` - Send messages and images for AI analysis

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### 🎨 Frontend

- HTML5
- CSS3
- JavaScript (ES6)

### ⚙️ Backend

- Python (Flask)
- Node.js (Optional)

### 🤖 Machine Learning

- TensorFlow
- Scikit-learn
- OpenCV

### 🗄️ Database & DevOps

- MySQL
- MongoDB
- Firebase
- Docker
- GitHub Actions

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```text
AGRITECH/
├── app.py                      # 🐍 Flask Backend (Main entry point)
├── server.js                   # 🟢 Node.js Chatbot Server
├── package.json                # Node.js dependencies
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── firebase.js                 # Firebase config fetching
├── 📁 chatbot/
│   ├── chat.html               # 🤖 Chatbot interface
│   ├── chat.js                 # Chatbot client logic
│   ├── chat.css                # Chatbot styling
│   ├── json-chatbot.js         # Rule-based chatbot engine
│   └── chatbot-responses.json  # Predefined responses
├── 📁 src/
│   └── 📁 frontend/            # 🌐 Frontend UI (HTML, CSS, JS)
│       ├── 📁 pages/           # Individual page files
│       ├── 📁 css/             # Stylesheets
│       └── 📁 js/              # Client-side scripts
├── 📁 Crop Recommendation/   # 🌾 Crop recommendation module
├── 📁 Disease Prediction/     # 🔬 Disease detection module
├── 📁 Crop Yield Prediction/   # 📊 Yield forecasting module
├── 📁 Community/               # 💬 community/forum backend
├── 📁 images/                  # 📸 Screenshots and assets
├── 📄 README.md                # This file
└── 📄 CONTRIBUTING.md          # Contribution guidelines
```

---

### Backend vs Frontend

- **Backend** (`app.py` at root): Flask server handling APIs, Firebase config
- **Frontend** (`src/frontend/`): Static HTML/CSS/JS served via Python HTTP server
- **Optional Node Server** (`server.js`): Alternative chat backend (not required)

---

## 🔐 Security & Reliability

- Image sanitization using OpenCV
- Secrets stored in `.env` files
- ML models evaluated using standard performance metrics (accuracy varies by model and dataset)

---

### ⚙️ Environment Variables

```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_api_key
FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_key
FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your_project.firebaseapp.com
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your_bucket.appspot.com
FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=your_measurement_id
```

---

## 🔐 Registration Validation Rules

To maintain clean user data and enforce business policies, AgriTech now applies strict
validation whenever a new account is created (frontend **and** backend):

- **Full Name / Username:** only alphabetic characters and spaces are allowed. The
  same rule is enforced in the database model, API routes, and client-side form.
- **Email:** registrations are limited to `@gmail.com` addresses. Non‑Gmail domains
  are rejected both on the client and by API endpoints.

Error messages are shown immediately on the form and the backend returns a descriptive
400 response when validation fails. Automated tests cover both model‑level and
endpoint behavior.

---

---

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- Cloud Deployment
- Mobile Application
- Real-Time Weather API
- ~~AI Chatbot~~ ✅ **COMPLETED**
- Multilingual Support

---

## 🤝 Contribution Flow

```bash
Fork → Clone → Branch → Commit → Push → Pull Request → Review → Merge
```

Read **[CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)** for SWoC 2026 guidelines.

---

## 👥 Team

| Name          | Role                    |
| ------------- | ----------------------- |
| Om Roy        | Project Lead · Web · ML |
| Shubhangi Roy | ML · Backend            |

---

## 🤝 Contributing & Support

We love contributions! Please read our **[CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md)** to get started with **SWoC 2026** tasks. Whether it's fixing bugs, adding features, or improving documentation, your help is always welcome!

---

## ✨ Contributors

#### Thanks to all the wonderful people contributing to this project! 💖

![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=omroy07/AgriTech)

[View full contribution graph](https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech/graphs/contributors)

---

For production use, run the backend with a WSGI server like [gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/):

```bash
pip install gunicorn
gunicorn app:app
```

---

## 🔑 API Keys Guide

- **Gemini API Key:** [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/) se generate karein.
- **Firebase Keys:** [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) se apne project ke liye keys lein.
- API keys ko `.env` file me store karein (kabhi bhi repo me commit na karein).

---

## 🐞 Reporting Issues

Found a bug or want a new feature? [Open an issue](https://github.com/omroy07/AgriTech/issues).

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## 🛠️ Common Issues & Fixes

- ❌ **ModuleNotFoundError**
  👉 Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

- ❌ **Firebase config error**
  👉 Ensure `.env` values match Firebase Console

- ❌ **CORS issue**
  👉 Make sure backend runs before frontend

- ❌ **Port already in use**
  👉 Change port in `app.py` or stop previous process

## ❓ FAQ

**Q: The project is not running. What should I do?**
A: Make sure all Python dependencies are installed, the .env file is properly configured, and the correct API keys are being used.

**Q: How do I get a Gemini/Firebase API key?**
A: Refer to the “API Keys Guide” section above for step-by-step instructions.

**Q: I am seeing the warning “This is a development server…” on the Flask server. What does it mean?**
A: This server is intended only for development. For production, use a WSGI server such as Gunicorn.

**Q: I accidentally pushed my .env file. What should I do?**
A: Immediately rotate/regenerate your API keys, remove the .env file from Git tracking, add it to .gitignore, and clean the repository history if required.

**Q: The /health endpoint is not responding. What could be wrong?**
A: Ensure the backend server is running correctly and that the /health route is properly implemented.

---

**Made with ❤️ by the AgriTech Community — SWoC 2026**
